# SIRPA project

## Description
----------------
Immunosuppressive myeloid cells in the tumour immune microenvironment (TIME) constrain T cell activity and hinder immunotherapeutic efficacy, but the precise mechanisms remain undefined. Here, by performing single cell RNA-seq of tumour-infiltrating immune cells from colorectal cancer patients, we found that tumour-associated macrophages (TAMs) and granulocytic myeloid-derived suppressor cells (gMDSCs) increased most compared to their counterparts in normal tissue and displayed the highest immune-inhibitory signatures among all immunocytes. These cells exhibited significantly increased expression of immunoreceptor tyrosine-based inhibitory motif (ITIM)-bearing receptors such as SIRPA, CLEC4A and SIGLEC9. Intriguingly, Sirpa-/- mice but not Clec4a2-/- or Siglece-/- mice were more resistant to solid tumour progression than wild-type mice. Expression level of SIRPA was inversely correlated with patient survival and cancer recurrence. Moreover, Sirpa deficiency reprogramed the TIME through expansion of TAM_Ccl8hi and gMDSC_H2-Q10hi subsets that showed strong anti-tumour activity. Sirpa-/- macrophages presented strong antitumour activity and antigen presentation to enhance T cell activation and proliferation. Furthermore, Sirpa-/- macrophages facilitated T cell recruitment into tumours via Syk/Btk-dependent Ccl8 secretion, which eventually established T cell-dependent immunological memory. Therefore, these findings suggest that Sirpa deficiency enhances innate and adaptive immune activation independent of tumour cell expression of CD47, and Sirpa blockade could be a promising strategy to improve cancer immunotherapy efficacy.
For details, please refer to the **paper**.

The data analysis of this work was done by Xuefei Wang from Jin Lab @SUSTech.

